# DJ-group_Metagenomic-sequencing-pipeline
This pipeline processes metagenomic sequencing data from short-read sequencing data (e.g. Illumina) to reconstruct high-quality MAGs (Metagenome-Assembled Genomes) and annotate them with functional and taxonomic information. 

1.	Terminologies
   1. Annotation: The process of assigning biological information (e.g., gene function, taxonomy, pathways) to predicted sequences such as CDS
   2. Bin: A group of contigs that are clustered together, typically representing one genome. Similar to MAGs, but bins may also include incomplete or contaminated genomes (i.e., lower quality)
   3. CDS (Coding DNA Sequence): A DNA region that is transcribed and translated into a protein
   4. Contigs: Continuous DNA sequences obtained from assembling overlapping short reads.
   5. Coverage: The proportion of a genome covered by sequencing reads.
   6. Depth: The average number of times each base is sequenced (also called sequencing depth).
   7. Mapping: Aligning sequencing reads to a reference genome or contigs.
   8. MAG (Metagenome-Assembled Genome): Genome reconstructed from metagenomic sequencing data through binning and assembly.
   9. Reads: Short DNA fragments generated by sequencing.

\This pipeline use below softwares for each step
  1. Quality Check: FastQC and Fastp
  2. Assembly: MEGAHIT
  3. Mapping: Bowtie, Samtools
  4. Coverage: CoverM
  5. Binning: VAMB, CONCOCT, Semibin2, MaxBin2
  6. MAG quality check: Dastool, dRep, CheckM
  7. Taxonomic: GTDB-TK
  8. Annotation: DIAMOND, EnrichM, KEGG Database
